Hello, my name is Tasio Guevara.
I'm a solutions
architect with AWS.
In this session, I'm going
to talk and explain how you can
build a text classification model
by using AWS Glue and
Amazon SageMaker.
Not only that, I want to
make sure that you
don't need to know
that much about
machine learning in
order to fulfill this task.
So you may have
been using already
SageMaker and using
this sample notebooks.
Indeed they are a great
tool to get started
and actually start using
the built-in algorithms
or bringing your own,
but you may have noticed
a pattern in them.
Usually, you start by
downloading some dataset,
a public dataset, and
then working with it in
the notebook instance and
eventually uploading it to S3.
Now, that is really great
for learning and for
some small datasets.
When you start working with
real case and real data,
you will see that the size
of these datasets
they are much bigger.
So you may encounter that
these instances
cannot scale up to
the challenge even though
you can actually get even a
P316 extra large in a
single notebook instance.
But this is where AWS glue
becomes really relevant.
Because you can really work with
enormous amounts of data and
you can scale and process
that data in order
to be consumed by
SageMaker or any algorithm
that you want to bring.
First, I would like, actually,
to talk about text
classification.
Why is it important to you?
So you may notice that most
of the data that we humans
produce is nowadays pictures,
videos, audio but we also
produce a ton of texts.
If you go to Twitter,
when it's social network,
what we do is actually post
some pictures but write.
Not only that, we read news.
So you have news, you guys
repost from companies.
You have tons of text that
you may want to leverage
in order to improve
your business.
So text classification is
one specific use case for
natural language processing.
For example, you could think
about sentiment analysis.
What is people talking
about your company?
Are they've talking good
things, bad things?
That's just a specific case
of a broader text
classification problem.
But then you could also use that
for triaging trouble tickets.
You may have your customers
introduce a description
of a problem they have.
But in many cases,
they need to actually introduce
some class to help you
fulfill their need.
What if they could just
introduce a problem,
write it down and
you automatically
can try us out to the right
team to solve the issue.
Well, they would benefit
from, first thing,
not having to introduce
those metadata that are
necessary for you
but not for them,
but also get a quicker response.
First, I would like to talk
about the machine
learning process.
In this session,
we're going to go
through this process
with a real case.
We're going to take
a real dataset,
it's a publicly
available dataset,
and we're going to
end with a model
that we can use to do
some text classification.
Now, there is a
process in between
and there is some pinpoints in
this process that AWS is
helping you overcome.
Thanks to the services and
the data platform
that we provide.
We'll see how you can leverage
that to really kill
those pinpoints.
So this is how the machine
learning process looks like.
It has four different
stages and it
starts with the business problem.
You need to have a business
problem that you want to
solve in order to get
started because if you don't
know where you're going,
you never know that you're there.
Once you have defined the problem
plus some requirements
about accuracy,
then you need to have data.
You need to work with
data and do you have to
collect it, you have
to integrate it,
which means that you may have
different sources and you
want to put it together,
and then you need to prepare and
clear in order to train a model.
So for training you
actually need an algorithm,
then you need to also visualize
the data that you're
going to use,
maybe do some
feature engineering,
and then train the model.
But, usually, it doesn't
really work on the first go.
You probably going to need
to tweak how the algorithm
works in order to
get a better model.
Then you need to evaluate it.
Once it's evaluated, you need to
decide if it's good
for production or not.
But once you decide that it's
suitable for production,
then you need an endpoint
where you can run
inferences against and you
need to monitor how
that is performing.
Eventually, you're going
to go into retrain.
Mastering this cycle is
crucial for achieving
good results.
No single great model out
there is just working
on the first go.
You always circulate in
this cycle over it
and iterate quickly,
as quick as you can,
to get better results.
Let's see this in practice.
Let's see these four phases
and let's go one by one.
First, we have the discovery.
Let's frame our business problem.
At the beginning, I talked
about trouble ticket
and our business goal will
be to do a triaging
of trouble tickets.
We'll see that I cheated a bit on
the business problem but it's
very similar problem
that we'll solve.
The goals that you can
achieve with this is that you
can streamline the
ticket creation process.
As I said, usually when you
are having an issue
with any service,
you have to introduce some
metadata that is helping
the service provider to
try use that ticket.
Now, what if we can remove that?
It would be a much
better experience.
Then you may reduce
this ticket solving
time by getting to
the right queue at
the beginning and then
you would minimize
balancing tickets.
So what dataset can we use?
I'm going to talk about the
Amazon reviews dataset.
As you see, amazon.com
sells millions of
different products.
Each product has
customer reviews.
Now, this is how a customer
review looks like.
It has some metadata
like the author,
the rating, a header,
a text, which is at the
body of the review,
how useful has it been,
plus other metadata.
Amazon.com has made
these available on AWS.
You have this dataset
available from
a public bucket in S3.
It contains 20 years
of product reviews
from Amazon customers and
accompanying metadata.
There are more than
160 million reviews.
There's close to 80
gigabytes of raw data,
51 gigabytes barely if it's
compressed with parquet,
and it's partitioned
by product category.
This is a key thing
for our use case
because what we're going to do is
try to predict a product category
out of the text of that review.
So as I said, it's a
very similar problem
because we're going to predict
a label out of a text.
But in this case,
it's going to be
a product category from
a review instead of
a trouble ticket category
from the problem description.
Now, these are some
examples I picked up.
I picked them
specifically because
they are hard to
predict for a human,
so disappointed, stopped working
due to water after
only two weeks,
what kind of product
could that be?
Ten-year-old loved it.
That sounds like a toy but it
may be something different.
The metal is very cheap and
bendable, but it works fine.
Well, this would be a
hard task for a human.
But let's see how
a machinery model
can deal with it. We'll
see that at the end.
Yeah, we have already the
business problem defined,
now we need to frame it
with some requirements.
So how good should the model be?
Well, in our case,
it doesn't really matter, right?
It's just an example.
So I am going to show you the
perfect confusion matrix.
A confusion matrix is a measure
of how good a
classification model works.
So in the y-axis,
we have the true
labels of the data,
and in the x-axis,
we have the predicted label.
In this case, we
see a perfect one.
So everything is white
except for the diagonal.
So that means that we have
a 100 percent accuracy.
We have 100 percent recall.
So we have a really
perfect model.
This is something you'll
see only theoretically here
but it will never
happen in real life.
So now, we have
finished our discovery
and we can move on
to the integration.
We'll start by visualizing
and analyzing the data.
In order to do that,
we can use AWS Glue crawler.
A crawler is a process
that is going to
traverse our data and try to
extract a schema out of it.
Then, once it's
done, it will have
a database and a table
there that you can
use with other AWS
services like Athena.
So the creation of our Glue
crawler is rather simple.
In our case, we just
specify the path in
an S3 bucket and give it
a role that has access
to that bucket,
and can create tables
and databases on Glue.
So once we have that,
we can start actually
querying that data.
I mentioned Athena, you can
actually take Quicksight
to have visualizations on
data that is being
created by Athena.
This is the schema that was
extracted from the
public dataset.
We see all of the
columns that are there.
We're going to focus on review
body, which is the text,
and product category, which
is what we're going
to try to predict,
also called the target.
Now, let's have a look at
some characteristics
of the dataset.
By using Quicksight,
I could query
how many reviews were there
per product category.
We see this interesting
graph where
we see that this is a very,
very unbalanced dataset.
That means that there are
many more reviews of some
categories in this case,
for example, books than
others like personal
care appliances.
Well, this makes sense.
This dataset covers 20 years of
Amazon.com reviews
starting from 1995.
As you may well remember,
Amazon.com started selling books,
so it makes sense that there are
many more reviews about
books than other categories.
But generating a model out of
this could lead to a
very biased model.
That means that the
predictions that we would
get would lean towards
books just because the algorithm
has been trained
on a lot of books.
So we want to go from
that imbalanced dataset to
something like this where we
have roughly an equivalent amount
of reviews for each category.
So how do we do that?
If we talk about ETL,
T is for transformation,
so we need to transform a bit
this dataset from imbalanced
one to a balanced one.
We're going to do
that with AWS Glue.
Now, you can write
Glue jobs but usually,
it takes some time to spin up
the compute capacity that
is going to run the job.
So it's a very good idea to
start with a
development endpoint.
Recently, it was announced
that you can actually use
Sagemaker Notebooks in order
to connect to this
development endpoints.
Before, and you still can do it,
you needed a settling notebooks.
So you needed to
deploy your own EC2
instance and do
some configuration.
But now, it's a very
seamless experience.
So you go to the Glue console.
You click on the
development endpoints.
There, once you have
deployed your endpoints,
you can just launch
a notebook instance,
and you can access to it from
here or from the
Sagemaker console.
Okay. Let's start with
the balancing work.
When we need to
balance a dataset,
there are different strategies.
One of them could be just
duplicate records of
the categories that have
less reviews in this case.
Another approach could be just to
remove a lot of all
of these records.
There are other
sophisticated stuff
that data scientists do,
but usually, those do not
work so well with text.
So in this session,
we're going to go ahead
and remove some records.
So how many and which
ones do we remove?
So we're going to equalize on
the category with
the lowest counts.
That means that we're
going to remove actually
a lot of these reviews.
It's also going to help us
with this exercise because
we're going to work
with much less data which means
that we are going to be able
to train models much faster.
We're going to remove
just randomly.
So this is what we need to do.
We need to find the category
with the lowest count first.
Then, calculate a
factor that is going
to be assembling factor
for each other category.
Then, we need to take
a sample of N rows
of each category.
Then, we need to write those
into S3 so they can be
consumed by another Glue job.
So the first job is
going to be to find
the lowest count and
calculate a sampling factor.
When we start with Glue,
we need to get a dynamic frame.
This dynamic frame is going to be
used to read data from S3.
But in this case, we're going
to use the Glue catalog,
so we don't need to define
an S3 bucket or anything.
We just point to the database and
the table that we got
from the crawler.
Now, a dynamic frame is
very similar to a
Spark DataFrame.
But AWS Glue provides
some benefits on top of
a regular DataFrame so
it can help you deal
with some daily data.
Once we have this data source,
we're going to convert
it to a regular
Spark DataFrame because
we're going to use
a method in Spark DataFrame
that is not available,
the DynamicFrame.
This case is grouped
by. So we're going to
do the group by counts.
Then, we're going to
collect the result.
That is going to give us
how many reviews we
have per category.
Once we have that, we
find the category that
has the least reviews,
and then we calculate a
factor for each category.
Now, once we have the factors,
we need to take a sample of
N reviews for each category.
So we have an empty list
with the samples and we go
through every category and
every factor for the category.
Again, we read from
the database and the table
that we got from the crawler.
Now, this is a very
important lesson
I learned by doing this.
Push_down_ predicate allows
us to push a query down to
the service in a way that it can
use it to leverage the
partitions in the data.
As we said at the beginning,
the dataset is partitioned
by product category.
By doing this, we're
going to increase
the performance of
these queries by a lot.
By a lot, I mean that I
used to run this with
60 data processing
units and it took me,
without the push_down_predicate,
five hours to run this.
By putting that
simple line of code,
I got it down to four minutes.
So now that we have a reader,
a DynamicFrame used to read,
we have to take a sample of
each category using the factors
that we just calculated.
We do that with the sample method
existing in a DataFrame.
So this is why we first
convert the sample into
a DataFrame and then get
the sample out of it.
We end up by adding the
sample to a list of samples.
Then we can move
to the next step.
We need to write those into S3.
For that, we first are
going to do a union
of every single DataFrame
that we used to calculate it.
Once we have that, we're going to
need a writer with
a DynamicFrame.
So we convert back
from DataFrame to
DynamicFrame and we use
a DynamicFrame writer
to put that into S3.
Now, the format we're
going to use is
parquet because it's
very efficient and
it leverages the partitioning
that the dataset had.
As you see, writing parquet
with Glue is very simple.
We take the DynamicFrame writer
and we just specify the format.
We specify the target,
that means the S3
bucket and prefix,
and the partition key.
That's about it. Now, once
we run this job script,
then we will have
exactly what we're looking
for, a balanced dataset.
With this, we finish
the Integration phase and can
move on into the Training phase.
For Training, we need to choose
an algorithm and prepare
the data for it to be
consumed by the algorithm.
So the algorithm that I
chose and you can use is
BlazingText which is part of
the built-in
SageMaker algorithms.
BlazingText comes in two modes.
One is unsupervised
which allows you to
take text and get word
embeddings out of it.
A word embedding is basically
a representation of a word
in the form of a vector.
As you may know, Machine Learning
requires numbers
in order to work.
Then we have the supervised mode.
This extends a famous
fastText classifier
and is used for multi class and
multi label text classification.
This is the model we will use.
Now, in order for
BlazingText to work,
we need to provide it with
data in a specific way.
This is what BlazingText actually
needs to consume
to train a model.
So it requires a single
preprocessed text file
with space separated tokens.
A token is basically just a
word or a punctuation symbol.
Then we need, in that file,
a single sentence per line
and with the labels
alongside the sentence.
So a label is just
a word which is
prefixed by the
string underscore,
underscore label,
underscore, underscore.
Finally, we need
classification and validation.
It's an option but we'll
definitely make use of it.
So these are the things
that we need to do.
We need to select
only the fields that
we're going to use.
If you remember, we
have this table with
many fields and we
just need two of them.
Then we need to tokenize
the review body
and prepend the label
with the right format
that is required.
Then we need to split
the dataset into
training, validation,
and in this case we're
going to also use
a test subset so we can then
show how good our model is.
Then finally, we need
to write this subset in
a single object because
Bayesian text requires
a single file in S3.
So basically, what we need
is something that
looks like that.
Something with a label,
then a string of tokens,
and one sentence per line.
So as before, in order
to work with this,
we're going to have
a new different job.
So we need a new script.
We start, again, with the
dynamic frame reader.
We point to the
database and table but
in this case we're pointing
to the balanced dataset.
Then we just select the
fields that we want.
We want the product
category under review body.
Then we can move to
the tokenization.
How do we do that?
So the dynamic frame
contains a method called map.
So you can apply map into
the dataset and that means
that every single role in
that data is going to
be applied a function.
The function in this
case is called tokenize.
The tokenized function, it takes
the product category
from the dynamic record,
it puts in lowercase,
then prepends the label,
and transforms review
body in a specific way.
What we're doing is just use
a tokenization library from
a famous NLP library called NLTK.
So we take a tokenizer,
there's a family of
them available in NLTK,
and just apply that
to the string,
and we then just need to
do a join using a space.
Then once we have tokenized
every single sentence and
preparing did with a label,
we need to split the
dataset into the training,
the validation, and the test.
For that, we need to use
a random split function
available in the
DataFrame from Spark.
So we convert the
tokenized dynamic frame
into a DataFrame and
apply the random split.
I just chose 60 percent of
the reviews will be
used for training,
20 percent for validation
and 20 percent for testing.
So now we need to write each
of these subsets into S3.
If you'll remember
the requirements,
we needed just a single file.
The source data is
actually partitioned.
So that means that we
have multiple files with
multiple prefixes.
In this case, we really need
just one. How do we do that?
Well, we can use
the repetition method in
a DataFrame to just
get exactly one file,
one object in S3.
Once we have that,
we just, again,
take a dynamic frame writer.
In this case, we're
going to use this
CSV format because we just have
two columns which is the
label and the review,
and we just need to
separate them by space.
So we have the
separator as a space,
we don't need headers,
and we don't need to quote
our text in there, and that's it.
After this, we will
have the data available
and ready for SageMaker
to use with BlazingText.
Now, we need to train
that model and pass all
of that data through
the algorithm.
For this, we're going to
need a SageMaker Estimator.
We're going to use the generic
Amazon SageMaker Estimator
because right now
in the Python SDK,
there's not a specific one
available for BlazingText.
So we're just going to
configure that estimator with
the container that contains
the BlazingText algorithm,
we're going to provide
the channels that
are going to be used for
training and validating.
We're going to use
a specific role.
We're going to provide
instance configuration,
hyperparameters,
and finally the location where
you're training model artifacts
is going to be stored.
Let's see this in
Jupyter Notebooks.
So let's jump into
the console and then
go to our a notebook
that I prepared.
So here we are in Jupyter.
I have a notebook prepared to do
the training and
let's get started.
So we start by doing
some regular inputs.
We take a SageMakers
session that is going
to allow us to get some defaults.
For example, here we
get the default role.
Then we specify the
bucket where our data is.
We specify a prefix and
then we can proceed.
First, we install NLTK as we
will use it later on
for running some tests,
and we define the data channels.
So data channels
are just S3 inputs
that we acquired by telling
where the training data,
where the validation data are.
Then we define the
upper location.
This is the S3 bucket
and the prefix where
our training artifacts
are going to be
stored and take the region,
take a BlazingText Container.
We take the latest
version and we can get
started with the estimator.
So we define our estimator,
we define Amazon
SageMaker Estimator.
That's the general one.
We specify the
container, the role.
We're going to just
use one instance.
We're going to use a
C5 for extra-large.
The reason for this is
because our dataset
is actually smaller
than one gigabyte.
Recommendation would
be to use a P2 or
P3 instance GPUs if our
dataset was a bit bigger.
Then we specify some
other attributes
and that's about it.
Then we can define
the hyperparameters
for this estimator.
But we're not going to just stick
to the static set
of hyperparameters.
We're going to use
a very nice feature
from SageMaker called
hyperparameter tuning.
All hyperparameter
tuning is going to
do is allow us to define
ranges of hyperparameters and
then run training models,
training jobs in
parallel and explore
the results to try to
find better hyperparameter
configurations.
So what we need to do
is just define ranges.
For example, we say that
learning range rate is going
to be between 0.01 and 0.08
or the number of dimensions
into vectors and the
word embeddings that
are going to be used by
the algorithm between
a 100 and 200,
and then we define
the objective metric.
So this is a metric that
hyperparameter tuning will
use to determine which
model is actually better.
So once we define this,
we create a tuner object
plus the estimator,
plus the hyperparameter ranges.
We'd say how many jobs
are going to be run
and how many in
parallel. So that's it.
We define the tuner and
we call its fit function,
and it will begin with the job.
We're here in the
SageMaker console and
I have already run a few
hyperparameter tuning jobs.
So we pick one of
the hyperparameter
tuning jobs that I have.
We see that it actually
span 10 different jobs
and actually was running
two in parallel.
Then you see there is the
objective metric here.
If we go to the bottom,
we see that it started with 62.9,
then 64, and we started to
see some improvements as it went.
Then we can actually see
the best running job
and the best running job
it tells us that it used,
for example, vector
dimension of 183,
word-ngrams of two, and
you can actually see
everything that was
used for training
this specific one.
So with this, we already
finished the training.
So we've covered
another phase of our
Machine Learning model.
Now, for deploying this model,
we just can create a model,
clicking here, and
then from the console
itself where we see the models.
When we see the model,
we can just click on it
and create an endpoint.
That would deploy our model
into a specific input
that we can use for
running inferences.
Now, that is the way to
do it in the console,
but definitely, we can
also do it using code.
So we go back to the
Jupyter notebook.
So by using code,
we can just call the
tuner deployed method
with a specific counter of
instances and specific
instance type,
endpoint name and that's it.
Then we're ready, once it's
deployed ready to run
inferences against it.
So let's do remember
those three that we said
that will be challenging,
let's see how the modal response.
So we see we can actually run
inferences and we can get
a single prediction
for each sentence.
In the case of our example,
we have the first
sentence that it
says is lawn and garden.
That's actually
not the right one.
Then the second it says toys,
that was the most obvious
one but is not right either.
The third one it
predicted as kitchen,
which is the right one.
So probably we're talking about
a knife or something similar.
But we can also get
more than one label,
for instance, for each sentence.
If we see the first
sentence it says,
it's lawn and garden with
almost 40 percent probability,
but the second is watches
with almost 20 percent and
that actually is right.
That review was about a watch.
Then, if we continue
with the second,
it says it's toys, apparel,
or luggage and none
of them are right because
we're talking about
a gift card and
don't ask me why a
10-year-old gets excited
with a gift card,
but that was the review.
Finally, we also see that
that last sentence could be
also for the home
improvement or majored
appliances which
actually makes sense.
This is just using
some single examples.
What we want is to
build a confusion matrix
out of the training set.
So for that, we can use
some code we can run
all the training set through
the predictions and then we can
build our confusion matrix.
Since I said that I iterated
a few times over it,
I'm going to show you different
metrics is that I got.
With that, we have deployed
our model and fulfilled
the deployment.
Now, are we finished?
Well, as I said at the beginning,
it's crucial to iterate over
this model training in
order to get a more
accurate model.
So I'm going to walk
you over some of
the things that are
learned by doing this.
In one of the first
iterations that I
did build in this text
classification model,
I got this confusion matrix.
Now, can you spot
something weird about it?
Well, I see a column that
is darker than the rest
and that may show
some bias into predicting
a specific label.
In this case, I didn't know
exactly where to look,
but so I started
exploring a bit of
the training dataset and
then I saw that actually
when I repartitioned previously
that got the file sorted
by product category.
Which means that when
I pass that data
through the algorithm,
it saw first one category,
then it saw another one,
it saw another one and
there was a last one.
The last one was
what the algorithm
learned in the last time
and that it was what's
shaped the final results
of that algorithm.
So when I checked the file,
I saw that that category,
the last one, was exactly
this one in the column.
What do you need to
do to avoid that?
Well, we need to shuffle it.
Remember that you repartition,
the only thing that you
need to do is order by
a random value and
then repartition.
Once you have that,
then everything
in the training dataset
and the validation one,
it will be mixed.
So you're going to
train the algorithm now
learning about each category
in every iteration.
The results after
that are much better.
We still see some darker sites,
but they could be for
many different reasons.
Now, one thing that I learned
is that I should have
explored the data a bit better
before running into all of this.
So then I thought, well,
let's see what reviews are we
getting and then I decided
to select the ones that were
shorter than 20 characters.
So if you see them,
well, excellent,
great, good that doesn't
tell anything about
a specific category.
They're actually
very helpless here.
They may be helpful for a review,
but for our purpose,
we can get rid of them because
this can be about anything.
So once we do that,
then we get a slightly
better model.
Now, this model offered us
about 65 percent
accuracy which is
pretty good for a
model that has to
select between 36 categories.
Let's see how much
actually this would cost.
I've taken the main
drivers for cars,
in this case, which are AWS
Glue and Amazon SageMaker.
So first, we start with
the development endpoint.
We actually can run these
in around three hours.
So I selected an endpoint
with just two Data
Processing Unit,
which is what you pay for.
The cost at the moment
is $0.44 per DPU hour.
So that would total for $2.64.
Then we have the sampling job and
the preparation job and I
select a different DPUs because
parallelization and the type
of data that we're working
with and it took six
minutes to just sample.
So think about it. It's taken
50 gigabytes of
data and actually,
they were in the
North Virginia region
and when I moved
it and copied it,
it was actually in Ireland.
So it took about six minutes
to just take those
samples and move them
over to Ireland across
regions and that would
cost about $2.2.
Then the preparation one
only 20 DPUs, in this case,
it took about 25 minutes and
that will amount to $3.67.
For the notebook instance,
I just chose the smallest
one that would run through
the workshop about in three hours
and that would just be $0.15.
Now, for the tuning job which
is 10 of this tuning jobs,
but internally we would average
about almost three hours with 1
mlc.5.4xlarge for each of
the training jobs and
that would be $3.19.
So in total, you
can actually build
a model for a barely
more than $10.
Now, you can optimize on this.
So when you actually
run glue jobs,
you can get metrics and
these metrics can tell
you things about how many
executors do you need.
Executors actually can
be translated into DPUs
and I would encourage
you to go to
the documentation to check
how that calculation is done.
But in this case, for example,
we can see we could have sped up
our sampling job by
increasing the number of DPUs
and that would have
taken a shorter time.
Now, optimizing on costs.
It could mean that, well,
if you can run doing shorter
time by using more DPUs,
well, you need to find
what is the sweet spot for
you because it really
depends on the workload.
Then, in this case,
we saw that actually,
we were very, very close
from the needed executors
to the active ones.
So this cannot be
optimized so much,
but again, this really depends.
I hope this was helpful.
My name is [inaudible] ,
thank you for watching.